{\rtf1\adeflang1025\ansi\ansicpg1251\uc1\adeff0\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1049\deflangfe1049{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset204\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f39\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}
{\f37\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f40\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f41\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f42\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f43\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f44\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f45\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f59\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier New;}
{\f57\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f60\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f61\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f62\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f63\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f64\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f65\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 
\snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tblind0\tblindtype3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f2\fs20\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}
{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid421833\rsid6838037\rsid8337947\rsid12149401\rsid12281882}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.0000;}{\info{\title Installing on Windows (manual)}{\author iohonko}{\operator iohonko}
{\creatim\yr2015\mo11\dy25\hr13\min57}{\revtim\yr2015\mo11\dy25\hr13\min57}{\version2}{\edmins4}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords1232}{\nofchars7025}{\*\company MMZ}{\nofcharsws8241}{\vern24617}{\*\password 00000000}}{\*\xmlnstbl {\xmlns1 http://schemas.microsoft.co
m/office/word/2003/wordml}}\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1152\margr1152\margt1134\margb1134\gutter0\ltrsect 
\deftab708\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\donotembedsysfont0\donotembedlingdata0\grfdocevents0\validatexml1\showplaceholdtext0\ignoremixedcontent0\saveinvalidxml0\showxmlerrors1\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin
\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1152\dgvorigin1134\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct
\asianbrkrule\rsidroot12149401\newtblstyruls\nogrowautofit \fet0{\*\wgrffmtfilter 013f}\ilfomacatclnup0\ltrpar \sectd \ltrsect\linex0\headery708\footery708\colsx708\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid6517094\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ltrpar\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6517094 \rtlch\fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang1025 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f2\fs20\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 Installing on Windows (manual)
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 If you should ever need to install RabbitMQ manually, this is how to do it: 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 Install Erlang
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 Run the Erlang Windows Binary File. Erlang will appear in the Start Menu, and \\erlx.x.x\\bin\\erl.exe will be in C:\\Program Files (x86) or C:\\
Program Files, depending on your platform and whether you chose a 32bit or 64bit version of Erlang. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 Set ERLANG_HOME
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 If you have an existing RabbitMQ installation with the broker running as a service and you installed an Erlang VM with a differ
ent architecture then you must uninstall the service before updating ERLANG_HOME. 
\par Set ERLANG_HOME to where you actually put your Erlang installation, e.g. C:\\Program Files\\erlx.x.x (full path). The RabbitMQ batch files expect to execute %ERLANG_HOME%\\bin\\erl.exe. 
\par Go to Start\~>\~Settings\~>\~Control\~Panel\~>\~System\~>\~Advanced\~>\~Environment\~Variables. Create the system environment variable ERLANG_HOME and set it to the full path of the directory which contains bin\\erl.exe. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 Install RabbitMQ Server
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 Download rabbitmq-server-windows-3.5.6.zip from the link above. 
\par From the zip file, extract the folder named rabbitmq_server-3.5.6 into C:\\Program Files\\RabbitMQ (or somewhere suitable for application files). 
\par Finding Command Scripts and App Data
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 Commands for RabbitMQ Server
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 Within the rabbitmq_server-3.5.6\\sbin directory are some scripts which run commands to control the RabbitMQ server. 
\par The RabbitMQ server can be run as either an application or service (not both). 
\par * rabbitmq-server.bat starts the broker as an application.
\par * rabbitmq-service.bat manages the service and starts the broker.
\par * rabbitmqctl.bat manages a running broker.
\par Log in as an administrator. To see the output, run these from a Command Prompt in the sbin directory. 
\par Note: On Windows Vista (and later) you will need to elevate privilege (e.g. right-click on the icon to select Run as Administrator). 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 Find Commands Easily
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 Set up the system path so you can find the server and sbin directory easily. 
\par * Create a system environment variable (e.g. RABBITMQ_SERVER) for "C:\\Program Files\\RabbitMQ\\rabbitmq_server-3.5.6". Adjust this if you put rabbitmq_server-3.5.6 elsewhere, or if you upgrade versions.
\par * Append the literal string ";%RABBITMQ_SERVER%\\sbin" to your system path (aka %PATH%).
\par Now you can run rabbitmq commands from any (administrator) Command Prompt. 
\par You will need to navigate to rabbitmq_server-3.5.6\\sbin to run commands if your system path does not contain the RabbitMQ sbin directory. 
\par Synchronise Erlang Cookies (when running a manually installed Windows Service)
\par Erlang Security Cookies used by the service account and the user running rabbitmqctl.bat must be synchronised for rabbitmqctl.bat to function. 
\par To ensure Erlang cookie files contain the same string, copy the .erlang.cookie file from the Windows directory (normally C:\\WINDOWS\\
.erlang.cookie) to replace the user .erlang.cookie. The user cookie will be in the user's home directory (%HOMEDRIVE%%HOMEPATH%), e.g. C:\\Documents and Settings\\%USERNAME%\\.erlang.cookie or C:\\Users\\%USERNAME%\\
.erlang.cookie (Windows Vista and later). 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 Finding Application Data
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 By default, the RabbitMQ logs and Mnesia database are stored in the current user's Application Data directory e.g. C:\\Documents and Settings\\%USERNAME%\\
Application Data or C:\\Users\\%USERNAME%\\AppData\\Roaming (Windows Vista and later). 
\par Execute echo %APPDATA% at a Command Prompt to find this directory. Alternatively, Start\~>\~Run\~%APPDATA% will open this folder. 
\par Running RabbitMQ Server as an Application
\par The application is started by the rabbitmq-server.bat script in sbin. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 Customise RabbitMQ Server Environment Variables
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 Environment variable defaults are set within the rabbitmq-server.bat file. You may need to customise environment variables for your installation. 
\par Start the Broker as an Application
\par Run the command 
\par rabbitmq-server -detached
\par Alternatively, you can double-click the rabbitmq-server.bat file in Windows Explorer. 
\par If you start by double-clicking, a Command Prompt window opens, displays a short banner message, concluding with the message "completed with [n] plugins.", indicating that the RabbitMQ broker has been started successfully. 
\par If you started without the -detached option, e.g. by double-clicking, you will need a second Command Prompt window to control the application cleanly. Note: Closing the original Command Prompt window will forcefully shut down a server started this way. 

\par Stop or Manage the Broker
\par rabbitmq-server only starts the broker. To manage the broker use rabbitmqctl commands. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 Running RabbitMQ Server as a Service
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 The service will run in the security context of the system account without the need for a user to be logged in on a console. 
This is normally more appropriate for production use. The server should not be run as a service and application simultaneously. 
\par The service runs using the rabbitmq-service.bat script in sbin. 
\par Customise RabbitMQ Service Environment Variables
\par Note: After setting environment variables, you may need to install the service again. 
\par The rabbitmq-service.bat script recognises many of the same environment variables as rabbitmq-server.bat, as well as a few additional service environment variables. 
\par Install the Service
\par Install the service by running 
\par rabbitmq-service install
\par A service with the name defined by RABBITMQ_SERVICENAME should now appear in the Windows Services control panel (Start\~>\~Run\~services.msc). 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 Managing the Service
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 To manage the service (install, remove, start, stop, enable, disable), use rabbitmq-service.bat commands. You can also use the Win
dows Services panel (services.msc) to perform some of the same functions as the service script. 
\par Start the Broker as a Service
\par To start the broker, execute 
\par rabbitmq-service start
\par If the output from this command is "Service RABBITMQ_SERVICENAME started", then the service was started correctly. 
\par Confirm the service named RABBITMQ_SERVICENAME reports a "Started" status in Services: 
\par Start\~>\~Run\~services.msc. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 Port Access
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 Firewalls and other security tools may prevent RabbitMQ from binding to a port. W
hen that happens, RabbitMQ will fail to start. Make sure the following ports can be opened: 
\par * 4369 (epmd), 25672 (Erlang distribution) 
\par * 5672, 5671 (AMQP 0-9-1 without and with TLS)
\par * 15672 (if management plugin is enabled)
\par * 61613, 61614 (if STOMP is enabled)
\par * 1883, 8883 (if MQTT is enabled)
\par It is possible to configure RabbitMQ to use different ports. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 Default user access
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 The broker creates a user guest with password guest. Unconfigured clients will in general use these credentials. By default, 
these credentials can only be used when connecting to the broker as localhost so you will need to take action before connecting fromn any other machine. 
\par See the documentation on access control for information on how to create more users, delete the guest user, or allow remote access to the guest user. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid8337947 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 Managing the Broker
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 To stop the broker or check its status, use rabbitmqctl.bat in sbin (as an administrator). 
\par Stopping the Broker
\par Use rabbitmqctl stop. 
\par Checking the Broker Status
\par Use rabbitmqctl status. All rabbitmqctl commands will report the node absence if no broker is running (i.e. nodedown). 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 More info on rabbitmqctl 
\par Logging}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 Output from the server is sent to a RABBITMQ_NODENAME.log file in the RABBITMQ_LOG_BASE directory. Additional log data is written to RABBITMQ_NODENAME-sasl.log. 

\par The broker always appends to the log files, so a complete log history is retained. 
\par You can rotate logs using rabbitmqctl rotate_logs. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 Troubleshooting When Running as a Service
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 In the event that the Erlang 
VM crashes whilst RabbitMQ is running as a service, rather than writing the crash dump to the current directory (which doesn't make sense for a service) it is written to an erl_crash.dump file in the base directory of the RabbitMQ server (set by the RABBI
TMQ_BASE environment variable, defaulting to %APPDATA%\\%RABBITMQ_SERVICENAME% - typically %APPDATA%\\RabbitMQ otherwise). 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 Windows-specific Issues
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid421833\charrsid8337947 We aim to make RabbitMQ a first-class citizen on Windows. However, sometimes there are circumstances beyond our control. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 
\insrsid421833\charrsid421833 Please consult the Windows-specific Issues page. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid421833 
\par }}